add table of locality attributes in refman (#19323)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/language/core/modules.rst

Notice that ``M`` is a correct body for the component ``M2`` since its ``T``
component is ``nat`` as specified for ``M1.T``.

> .. _qualified-names:

Reviewer: If you want to move a large block of text, please do that by itself in a separate commit or separate PR with a comment like "Move qualified names section" so it's easy to see the changes.  Also would help to eventually squash some of your commits so the changes are easy to pick out.

Author: Alright, I can do that with a little bit of git struggle next weak.

Reviewer: Use `git rebase -i HEAD~999`, substituting something sensible for the `999` to move the text before your other changes.  Repeat moving the text and commit that before `git rebase continue`.  (Glossing over some details.  I'd be happy to be more explicit if you like.)

Reviewer: A good try, but the "Move Typing Modules" commit also includes the added table.  If you want to give it another try or would like help, let me know.  It's not the end of the world if it remains as you have it now.

Reviewer: Don't forget about this one (make "[Move "Typing modules" to the end](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/19323/commits/9710d79eefed34a9c0465c1fc77fe1c7b949b409)" only moving text, not adding the table).

   and the :ref:`Hint <creating_hints>` commands, although the latter
   don't support it within sections.

.. attr:: global

   This :term:`attribute` makes the effect of the command
   persist even when the current section or module is closed.  Loading
   the file containing the command (possibly transitively) applies the
   effect of the command.

   The ``Global`` prefix is an alternative syntax for the
   :attr:`global` attribute (see :n:`@legacy_attr`).

   .. warning::

      **Exception:** for a few commands (like :cmd:`Notation` and
      :cmd:`Ltac`), this attribute behaves like :attr:`export`.

   .. warning::

      We strongly discourage using the :attr:`global` locality
      attribute because the transitive nature of file loading gives
      the user little control. We recommend using the :attr:`export`
      locality attribute where it is supported.

.. _visibility-attributes-modules:

Summary of locality attributes in a module
------------------------------------------

The following table sums up the locality of vernacular commands in modules, when
outside the module where it was entered.
A similar table for :cmd:`Section` can be found

> :ref:`here<visibility-attributes-sections>`.

Reviewer: Consider rewording similar to my comment on the other table.

    - same as :attr:`global`
    - available with qualified name
    - attribute not supported
    - available with short name if imported, with qualified name if not

  * - :cmd:`Notation`
    - same as :attr:`global`
    - not available
    - attribute not supported
    - available when imported

  * - :cmd:`Notation (abbreviation)`
    - same as :attr:`global`
    - not available
    - attribute not supported
    - available with short name if imported, with qualified name if not

  * - ``Hints`` (and :cmd:`Instance`)
    - same as :attr:`export`
    - not available
    - available when imported
    - always available outside

  * - :cmd:`Set` or :cmd:`Unset` a flag
    - same as :attr:`local`
    - no effect
    - in effect when imported
    - in effect outside

  * - :cmd:`Canonical Structure`
    - same as :attr:`local`

      or :attr:`global`
    - available when imported
    - attribute not supported
    - available when imported

  * - :cmd:`Coercion`
    - same as :attr:`global`
    - not available
    - attribute not supported
    - available when imported

  * - :cmd:`Ltac`
    - same as :attr:`global`
    - not available
    - attribute not supported

>     - available with short name if imported, with qualified name if not

Reviewer: Let's hope this longish text gets line breaks in the rendered doc.  IIRC that may not be the case.  (Still waiting for the doc job to run.)

Reviewer: Alas, the lines are not split.  The user would have to scroll the table right/left--much harder to read.  You might be able to fit it in the available width by much shorter mnemonics explained just above or below the main table.  They could be hyperlinked if you like.

![image](https://github.com/coq/coq/assets/1253341/546b64eb-ed2d-421d-b882-763a9cd5d9b4)

module it was entered and "short name when imported" means that the command
always has effects outside the module but if the module (or the command, via
selective importation, when available) is not imported, the corresponding
identifier must be qualified in order to be used.

A similar table for :cmd:`Section` can be found
:ref:`here<visibility-attributes-sections>`.

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  * - ``Command``
    - no attribute
    - :attr:`local`
    - :attr:`export`
    - :attr:`global`

  * - :cmd:`Definition`, :cmd:`Lemma`, :cmd:`Axiom`, ...
    - :attr:`global`
    - qualified name
    - ❌
    - short name when imported

  * - :cmd:`Notation`
    - :attr:`global`
    - not available
    - ❌
    - when imported

  * - :cmd:`Notation (abbreviation)`
    - :attr:`global`
    - not available
    - ❌
    - short name when imported

  * - ``Hints`` (and :cmd:`Instance`)
    - :attr:`export`
    - not available
    - when imported
    - always

  * - :cmd:`Set` or :cmd:`Unset` a flag
    - :attr:`local`
    - not available
    - when imported
    - always

  * - :cmd:`Canonical Structure`
    - :attr:`local`

>       or :attr:`global`

Author: For this one, I just saw experimentally that default, local and global have the same meaning for the Canonical command. See also issue #19348. I did not manage to find the .ml file where this default locality attribute is fixed. @SkySkimmer would you know where to find this piece of information?

>       or :attr:`global`

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/coq/coq/blob/e564bef2404475ec83061cf7bf4b0759d58aca85/vernac/canonical.ml#L30

`cache` is run when adding the object and at the end of sections if it's kept
`open` is run when imported, in this case it checks `Int.equal i 1` which means it does nothing for deep imports (eg if the object is from M.N when importing M)
`load` is run when requiring and at the end of modules, in this case it's not provided so it does nothing
`subst` is module substitution, doesn't matter for locality
`classify` tells if the object is kept at the end of modules, in this case it's Substitute so it's always kept. Dispose would mean it's dropped. There's also Keep which means it's kept but doesn't work with functors, and Anticipate which is only used for Require because it needs to coordinate with the kernel
`discharge` tells if the object is kept at the end of sections, in this case it depends on the locality boolean

So for the canonical structure object we see
- `local` is default false (unless the callers have some other default, in this case they don't)
- it is kept at the end of sections if not local and not a variable from the section, so eg `Section S. Variable x : ... Canonical Structure x. End S. (* not kept *)`
- it is always kept at the end of modules and takes effect on non-deep Import, not Require

See also https://github.com/coq/coq/blob/e564bef2404475ec83061cf7bf4b0759d58aca85/library/libobject.mli#L15-L65

>       or :attr:`global`

Author: Thank you very much for this very informative answer!

I'll settle for "local", then, it's consistent with what is in sections and closer to what happens (the Canonical is available outside the module by default).

   don't support it within sections.

.. attr:: global

   This :term:`attribute` makes the effect of the command
   persist even when the current section or module is closed.  Loading
   the file containing the command (possibly transitively) applies the
   effect of the command.

   The ``Global`` prefix is an alternative syntax for the
   :attr:`global` attribute (see :n:`@legacy_attr`).

   .. warning::

      **Exception:** for a few commands (like :cmd:`Notation` and
      :cmd:`Ltac`), this attribute behaves like :attr:`export`.

   .. warning::

      We strongly discourage using the :attr:`global` locality
      attribute because the transitive nature of file loading gives
      the user little control. We recommend using the :attr:`export`
      locality attribute where it is supported.

.. _visibility-attributes-modules:

Summary of locality attributes in a module
------------------------------------------

This table sums up the effect of locality attributes on the scope of vernacular
commands in a module, when outside the module where they were entered. A cross
(❌) marks an unsupported attribute, which will provoke a compilation error. In

> this table, "not available", means that the command has no effect outside the
> module it was entered and "short name when imported" means that the command
> always has effects outside the module but if the module (or the command, via
> selective importation, when available) is not imported, the corresponding
> identifier must be qualified in order to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this table, "not available" means that the command has no effect outside the
module containing it.  "Short name when imported" means that the command
always has effects outside the module; if the module is not imported, the
associated identifiers must be qualified.
```

"(or the command, via selective importation, when available)" - seemed less important than the other bits, maybe make it the final sentence?  OTOH, "when available" suggests that identifiers defined by some commands can be selectively imported and other cannot.  Would it be worthwhile to identify those differences?

Author: You're right, I'm dropping "when available" since it adds some noise in an already complicated state.
I think the refman is already clear about selective importation, but I will see if it can be improved later.

A similar table for :cmd:`Section` can be found
:ref:`here<visibility-attributes-sections>`.

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  * - ``Command``
    - no attribute
    - :attr:`local`
    - :attr:`export`
    - :attr:`global`

>   * - :cmd:`Definition`, :cmd:`Lemma`,

Reviewer: Is there a rationale for the order of the items?  For a short list, it doesn't have to be alphabetical.  It could be grouped by similar types of commands or perhaps by grouping commands with similar behavior.  Probably the two tables should have the identical order for ease of comparison.  Whatever you think is best.

Author: I have changed the order to group commands by identical behaviour.

   persist even when the current section or module is closed.  Loading
   the file containing the command (possibly transitively) applies the
   effect of the command.

   The ``Global`` prefix is an alternative syntax for the
   :attr:`global` attribute (see :n:`@legacy_attr`).

   .. warning::

      **Exception:** for a few commands (like :cmd:`Notation` and
      :cmd:`Ltac`), this attribute behaves like :attr:`export`.

   .. warning::

      We strongly discourage using the :attr:`global` locality
      attribute because the transitive nature of file loading gives
      the user little control. We recommend using the :attr:`export`
      locality attribute where it is supported.

.. _visibility-attributes-modules:

Summary of locality attributes in a module
------------------------------------------

This table sums up the effect of locality attributes on the scope of vernacular
commands in a module, when outside the module where they were entered. In the
following table:

* a cross (❌) marks an unsupported attribute (compilation error);
* "not available" means that the command has no effect outside the module it was entered;

> * "when imported" means that the command has effect outside the module if, and
>   only if, the module (or the command, via selective importation) is imported;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* "when imported" means that the command has effect outside the module if, and
  only if, the module (or the command, via selective importation) is imported (with 
  :cmd:`Import`, :cmd:`Export` or :cmd:`Require`);
```

If you're willing, maybe clarify the difference between Import and Export under those commands.  The doc for Export just says "Similar to Import, except that when the module containing this command is imported, the qualid+ are imported as well.", which only tells me "something is different between Import and Export--guess what it is?"

Author: done (without `Require` which leaves in the file world).

> * "short name when imported" means that the command has effects outside the module;
>   if the module (or command, via selective importation) is not imported, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* "short name when imported" means that the command has effects outside the module;
  if the module (or command, via :n:`@filtered_import`) is not imported, the
```

"selective import" appears only one place in the existing doc and is inconsistent with the nonterminal "filtered_import" used in Import and Require commands

      attribute because the transitive nature of file loading gives
      the user little control. We recommend using the :attr:`export`
      locality attribute where it is supported.

The following table sums up the locality of vernacular commands in modules, when
outside the module.

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

>   * - :cmd:`Command`

Reviewer 2: not a real command

Author: Thanks, just changed it to ``Command``.

    - without attribute, not imported
    - without attribute, imported
    - :attr:`local`
    - :attr:`export`
    - :attr:`global`

  * - :cmd:`Definition`, :cmd:`Lemma`, :cmd:`Axiom`, ...
    - available with qualified name
    - available with short name
    - available with qualified name
    - attribute not supported
    - same as without attribute

  * - :cmd:`Notation`
    - not available outside
    - available outside

>     - available with qualified name

Reviewer 2: Isn't this Local Notation? Then it should be not available outside

Author: Yes, mistake on my part

Author: Changed

    - attribute not supported
    - same as without attribute

>   * - :cmd:`Abbreviation`

Reviewer 2: not a real command?

Reviewer 2: maybe intended to be
```suggestion
  * - :cmd:`Notation (abbreviation)`
```

    - available with qualified name
    - available with short name
    - not available outside
    - attribute not supported
    - same as without attribute

  * - :cmd:`Hint` (and :cmd:`Instance`)
    - not available outside
    - available outside
    - not available outside
    - available outside if imported
    - always available outside

  * - :cmd:`Set` or :cmd:`Unset` a flag
    - not available outside
    - not available outside
    - not available outside
    - available outside if imported
    - always available outside

  * - :cmd:`Canonical`
    - not available outside
    - available outside
    - same as without attribute
    - attribute not supported
    - same as without attribute

>   * - :cmd:`Tactic`

Reviewer 2: not a real command, maybe
```suggestion
  * - :cmd:`Ltac`
```
